print("""Ethics & Impacts of IT notes

- NOTES -
*********
Please choose one of the options below, and press enter

1)what is reliability?
2)what is Intergrity ?
3)what is Security?
4)what is Privacy & Anonymity?
5)what is Intellectual Property?
6)what is Authenticity?
7)what is Digital Divide & Equality of Access? 
8)what is Globalization & Cultural Diversity?
9)what is IT Policies? 
""")
answer = "empty"
optionchoice = input()

while (answer == "empty"):
  if(optionchoice == "1"):
    print("refers to the operation of hardware, the design of software, the accuracy of data or the correspondence of data with the real world. Data may be unreliable if it has been entered incorrectly or if it becomes outdated. The reliability of machines, software and data determines our confidence in their value.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "2"):
    print("refers to safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of stored data. Data lacks integrity when it has been changed accidentally or tampered with. Examples of data losing integrity are where information is duplicated in a relational database and only one copy is updated or where data entries have been maliciously altered.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "3"):
    print("refers to the protection of hardware, software, machines and networks from unauthorized access. Security measures include restricted access to machines and networks for certain employees or to prevent access by hackers. The degree of security of information systems largely determines society’s confidence in the information contained in the systems.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "4"):
    print("Privacy is the ability of individuals and groups to determine for themselves when, how and to what extent information about themselves is shared with others. At its extreme, privacy becomes anonymity when, for instance, a person uses it to conceal his or her true identity in order to cyber-bully someone else. Conversely, excessive privacy could also conceal the perpetrators of criminal, terrorist or computer hacking acts from law enforcement agencies. ")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "5"):
    print("includes ideas, discoveries, writings, works of art, software, collections and presentations of data. Copyright, trademarks and patents exist to protect intellectual property. However, the easy and accurate duplication methods made available through IT can undermine such protection.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "6"):
    print("means establishing a user’s identity beyond reasonable doubt. Authenticating the user is crucial in many scenarios, particularly in business and legal matters. A simple example of authentication is a user login to a network. A more advanced example would be the use of encrypted digital signatures in a business transaction or the use of watermarking on digital photographs.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "7"):
    print("The growth of the use of IT systems has led to disparities in the use of, and access to, information technologies. Disparities exist not only internationally between countries, but also within countries between different socio-economic groups as well as within what may appear to be relatively homogenous groups. This may lead to groups or individuals without access to IT being disadvantaged. For example, while telelearning may bring previously unavailable opportunities to everyone’s doorstep, factors such as the cost and availability of hardware, software or access to the internet may create a “digital divide”.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "8"):
    print("means the diminishing importance of geographical, political, economic and cultural boundaries. IT has played a major role in reducing these boundaries. For example, any dramatic event anywhere in the world can be broadcast almost instantly by television or on the internet. However, the new “global village” may lead to the extinction of minority languages.")
    answer = "chosen"
  elif(optionchoice == "9"):
    print("are enforceable measures intended to promote appropriate and discourage inappropriate use relating to information technologies. They can be developed by governments, businesses, private groups or individuals. They normally consist of rules governing access to, or use of, information, hardware, software and networks. For example, a school policy on the use of IT would consist of each user signing an acceptable- use policy. It would also address unlawful access to the network through, for example, identity theft or using hacking software, and how these transgressions would be treated. Many websites also require users to agree to specific policies before allowing access to their services.")
    answer = "chosen"
  else:
    print("nice try")
    optionchoice = input()
